people don't understand their capacity
you don't need to hit rock bottom to be
the best version of yourself what you
just have to do is
I love that young Pueblo the expert in
unlocking your true potential he's a
meditator and best selling author whose
work has impacted the lives of millions
the world is incredibly challenging the
demands are intense and whether you've
experienced serious trauma or not hard
moments get accumulated into the mind or
trapped in this tight little bubble by
our past it keeps us in a loop you react
very intensely with anger with sadness
with you to feel anxiety stress but
healing and letting go are possible how
the best tool that we don't access is
meditation if there's someone listening
to this now and they go I don't meditate
I've tried it didn't work what is the
pitch you'd make to them Steve Jobs the
Sam Altman High performing people
cultivate their minds and meditate stay
cool Under Pressure make more creative
decisions I can do more with less stress
it's essential for your mental health
when I grew up I didn't want to admit to
myself that I didn't feel good I'm
constantly trying to coat myself in
pleasure by drinking as much as possible
doing tons of drugs where I almost lost
my life everything was going terrible
but when I started meditating everything
changed requires this application of
self-awareness to really unlock your
happiness you got to see what you're
doing to yourself meditating even the
biggest investment that I've made in my
life in a specific way how does your
meditation look there's two main things
one is
before this episode starts I have a
small favor to ask from you two months
ago 74 of people that watch this channel
didn't subscribe we're now down to 69 my
goal is 50 so if you've ever liked any
of the videos we've posted if you like
this channel can you do me a quick favor
and hit the Subscribe button it helps
this channel more than you know and the
bigger the channel gets as you've seen
the bigger the guests get thank you and
enjoy this episode
[Music]
Diego Perez when you
look at the body of work you've produced
and you look specifically at the the
writing the content that you've put out
into the world
what mission are you on what is it
you're trying to do what effect are you
trying to have on Society at Large
I think the mission is really hoping to
raise self-awareness around the fact
that healing and letting go are possible
so I got into this world
really early on I think uh it was 2011
when I started realizing that healing
was even possible and this was before
Wellness was even a giant sort of this
giant world that it is today and um
to me it was a shock you know when I
grew up
I thought that if you were sick
physically or mentally in some manner
you just had to deal with that for the
rest of your life you couldn't really
fix that in any way and when I started
changing my habits when I started
changing what I was eating when I
started reassessing my friend group and
then eventually when I started
meditating the changes were so massive
that I was so shocked by them that I
wanted to really check in with myself
and see that is this real and it was
real so that just kind of pushed me into
writing where I felt this sort of
creative pull to to share the little bit
about that I that I know you know and it
was interesting because I know that I
don't know everything I'm not fully
healed I'm not fully wise I have a long
way to go but hopefully some of the
things that I'm reflecting on could
Inspire other people to do the serious
work as well and and why why does it
matter that we heal why does it matter I
think it's because it's pretty necessary
to live a better life like I I think uh
whether you've experienced serious
trauma or not you've definitely had hard
moments in your life and those hard
moments
get accumulated into the mind they
literally you know the times when you
react very intensely with anger with
sadness with whatever emotion it is
that reaction gets accumulated in your
mind and predisposes you to feeling that
same thing again and oftentimes we don't
quite realize that we're sort of like
trapped in this tight little bubble by
our past and we're thinking the same
things saying the same things making the
same actions and it keeps us in a loop
but if you start healing you can
basically get access to your freedom
so thinking about what you said there
about your own healing Journey where you
couldn't believe the results Were Real
and True
what did you heal from
I think a lot of it was anxiety and
stress and this sort of scarcity mindset
so I was born in Ecuador and the city
called wayakil I came to the United
States when I was about four years old
with my parents when we got to the
United States it was incredibly
difficult like we were stuck in the
classic American poverty trap my mom she
worked cleaning houses my dad he worked
um at a supermarket so there was no
upward Mobility for us they didn't know
English you know we were
and we went through a really difficult
time so
as I was growing up I didn't notice how
that was affecting me until I got to
college where you know I had so much
anxiety and stress about you know I
would see my parents fight constantly
about how they were going to pay the
rent how they were going to get more
groceries I experienced multiple times
where I was you know eight-year-old
child and I'm so hungry because there
wasn't enough food in the fridge and
this saw got accumulated over time and
never really properly processed you know
like I didn't have access to a therapist
back then no meditating back then it was
sort of just um you know coping
mechanisms and
when I got to University
I hit this breaking point where
I didn't want to admit to myself that I
didn't feel good I was constantly trying
to coat myself in pleasure by drinking
as much as possible smoking as much as
possible always with friends never alone
and I ended up just like building all
these bad habits where I was partying
constantly doing tons of drugs and
eventually hit that breaking point in
the summer of 2011 where I almost lost
my life
um I talked to a doctor afterwards and
described to them what happened and they
were like oh yeah it sounds like a mild
heart attack where I had just taken way
too many drugs one night was on the
floor
crying basically you know praying
begging for my life
um because I didn't I didn't want to go
out like that and going through that
experience and then
basically taking a different route into
the life that I have now I think um I'm
really grateful that I had that strength
and I want other people to know that
they have that strength too
zooming on that moment then when you go
off to college you you know find
yourself in addictive Cycles with drugs
and alcohol and cocaine I believe
um you have that miniature heart attack
yeah and then at that point you make a
decision that you're not going to let
this thing kill you yeah what is the
next step in your journey towards
healing
walking yeah walking some things I mean
I was incredibly unhealthy right I was
definitely overweight at the time but um
but internally right I had an exercise
probably in like four years four or five
years and um so I knew I took the drugs
threw them away
um you know I'm home and I'm like okay
how do I
like revamp my life and I remember
seeing some YouTube video or stumble
upon or I saw something back then where
um it was talking about how important it
is to have more nutrition so I ended up
buying a like huge tub of barley grass
you know back barley grass used to be
like really hit back then and
um I needed some type of superfood
because I knew I'm you know every day
I'm just eating you know rice and meat
rice and meat just like a very like
South American diet and I was like okay
let me get some nutrition let me get
this barley grass stuff I can put it in
my orange juice and just knock it back
and I was like I gotta do something like
I have to go outside and I just started
walking and I remember I was so
unhealthy started walking lightly
jogging that I got the worst shin
splints like I literally my legs hurt so
bad that I was having trouble going up
the stairs but I kept going and I kept
going and like you know even this
morning this morning I ran four miles no
problem and thinking about that time
it's
yeah I've come come a long way
I was I was thinking as you were
speaking about yeah
the Catalyst of change in people's lives
like that moment where they hit rock
bottom and they say enough is enough
and what it takes for for them to make a
meaningful sustained change in any
element of their life whether it's their
relationships and leaving and going
finding a better situation or a job or
just life in general like you're
describing where you realize you're on
the wrong track and you make the
decision
to to to go in a New Direction two
questions there what do you think it is
that from your experience that starts
that journey of change for people and
the second thing is when we often speak
to people who've changed the process
seems to be really linear and quick like
I made the decision to change
then I changed
I think people doubt their power
honestly man I've seen that happen time
and time again where people don't quite
understand their capacity and especially
when the situation gets severe and of
course like you know not everybody makes
it like some people get
destroyed by the process of hitting rock
bottom but other people stand up it's
almost like a phoenix I remember writing
a poem called Phoenix in my first book
Inward and um
I think that you know it's pretty
personalized like I really don't think
everybody has to hit rock bottom and I
think um I like having that point of
view because I think people want to like
go to extremes often and kind of
dramatize things but you don't need to
hit rock bottom to be the best version
of yourself I think that's that's kind
of the situation that I was personally
in
um but for me man I remember when I was
on the floor and I kept thinking
about I was like man I feel my life like
you know it's it's running out like I
felt it running out and I kept thinking
about my parents and I was like they
worked so hard like you know they I
wasn't even mad at them they didn't have
time for me because I knew their
struggle like I understood like I got it
you they rolled the dice by coming to
the United States because
everybody doesn't win here the other
major major thing like when I
you know the few days after where I
almost lost my life I remember sitting
in my room
um at my mom and dad's house and this
was you know I had just graduated from
college it was 2011 the economy was was
pretty bad it was hard to get a job at
the time and I remember sitting in the
room and I was like okay I was like
what's the problem here like what like
how did this almost happen and it hit me
it was like oh is it because you didn't
want to admit that you didn't feel good
now if that's what got you here what can
get you out of this and it's oh it's
telling yourself the truth and this was
you know before I had learned how to
meditate or anything but I would just
sit in my bed
and I would challenge myself to stay
with the feelings that I used to run
away from so like I like to call it
radical honesty with yourself like it's
not it's not really about other people
but it's between you and yourself and
when those heavy emotions would come up
normally I would just roll a joint smoke
and just you know it help cover whatever
was there but when the anxiety would
arise when the stress would arise when
those feelings of worthlessness would
arise
I would just sit with them and you know
first it was a few minutes then 10
minutes 15 minutes and I was like okay
like and I learned a lot you know I
learned that
these little storms that come up like
they don't need to blow you over they
don't need to totally overwhelm you they
don't even need to govern your actions
if you just sit there and feel them
you realize they're totally temporary
and it's gonna be okay you know and and
I I didn't know that before until I
started challenging myself to just be
with that and I don't really know where
that came from you know like I had
hadn't really
I hadn't really read self-improvement
books or seen these things online or
anything like that but I think
instinctually I was like okay if you
were lying to yourself before now tell
yourself the truth and what does that
look like a lot of the time it looks
like feeling your emotions and not
running from them
we don't do that do we
we um we distract ourselves constantly
constantly yeah it's I was just thinking
then how many how many of us really know
how we're feeling like how many of us
really know how we ourselves are feeling
truly like when was the last time I
think for most people listening to this
have you really sat there on the end of
your bed or wherever and asked yourself
how you're actually feeling all things
considered what's out of balance
it's rare but I think it's becoming more
popular I'm pretty inspired by what's
happening now I've um
I've been watching this whole wellness
world brew and grow and develop and
obviously it has its Downs it has a lot
of consumerism around it but there are a
lot of positives and there are just
millions and millions of people who are
seeing therapists now there's millions
and millions people who are meditating
and there are millions and millions more
journaling reflecting building
self-awareness building language around
these you know newer ideas
um I mean actually old ideas but that
have you know come back around
um it's not also slightly concerning
what do you mean because it's
it's a sign that there is a increasing
demand potentially
for
you know what I mean if it's if there's
more fire extinguishers being sold right
right right right oh it's totally
concerning I think um it's concerning
but I think to me it gives it gives us
gives me hope honestly because
of course the world is incredibly
challenging you know the Advent of
Technology especially with social media
the increases in loneliness like we know
we know like the cause and effect are
very clear right
but these tools have been around for
like you know the Western tools of
therapy what 100 150 years the Eastern
tools of different forms of meditation
indigenous healing practices these
things have been around for Millennia
and now that the world is globalized
people in major cities especially have
access to them like you can type in like
what can what what can I do to deal with
my anxiety and you have like you know
things from from psychiatrists like you
know you can go to your like local
Meditation Center there are tons of
things that you can do now and what you
just have to do is find something that
meets you where you're at so you do see
these two things rise together where the
demand for your attention is through the
roof now from the media from Tech from
everything that's happening around you
family and friends but at the same time
here are a bunch of tools for you to get
your mind right so that you can not be
overwhelmed by these demands I am
certainly guilty of using screens and
other means to distract myself from how
I'm feeling in fact you know when I'm
feeling tired or so you know bothered in
some way or a little bit agitated
whatever it might be my way of dealing
with that is to pick up a screen yeah
that's good to be honest pick up a
screen
and either watch something on YouTube
distract myself from the feeling maybe
watch some football
um or something else you know something
else that's probably not so good for me
um and I think that you know scrolling
on my phone for example I think that
represents the majority of people we use
distraction as a way to avoid
confronting how we're feeling because
confronting how we're feeling is
can be uncomfortable absolutely I mean
confronting how you're feeling for a lot
of us that's the gateway to growth right
so if you're going to be there and stand
with your emotions
you either see so much that you want to
keep running or you're like okay I'm
gonna accept this Challenge and let's
see how I should grow next so it is
quite difficult
there's a bunch of ways to say it what
is that
it's a meditation uh that's been around
that originated from the Buddhist
teaching so 2 600 years where you
basically uh
do your best to see reality as it really
is and it's very different from how we
normally see reality right you and I are
hanging out we're talking we're having
this conversation it feels like it's too
individuals speaking but let's ask
ourselves what's happening at the
ultimate level where well Diego and
Steven were basically just these like
bundles of atoms that are changing so
incredibly rapidly trillions of times
and at the same time it's just mental
and physical phenomena interlocking at
incredibly high speeds that makes the
illusion that we're here
but in reality are we real no not really
why is that an important or valuable
exercise it's quite valuable I think the
sense of self
um when it becomes overgrown when it
becomes highly traumatized
um it creates a barrier to happiness so
what I've found through for positive
meditation was that
as I was observing the truth of
impermanence literally within the
framework of the body you know when you
start learning that everything that
arises ultimately passes away and you
start understanding that change is it
exists within the fabric of every single
thing in this universe you start
loosening up your identity it's not as
rigid as it was before it's not like
Diego always reads science fiction and
he always loves blueberries actually
it's not true sometimes I love
watermelon sometimes I love you know
like reading fiction some you know so it
allows this uh understanding of change
to help you loosen up and really evolve
and I've have found that quite
beneficial to my personal joy and
happiness and definitely in my
relationships because if you Embrace
change you're not going to be as
attached it's not going to be like I
want you to do this this way all the
time in fact you're going to understand
oh no different conditions create
different situations so yes I can have
goals but if they don't come about I'm
not going to be crying on the floor I'm
just going to try again
how do you think our earliest
experiences
impact the relationship we have with
change because change it's funny because
there's this almost duality of being a
human where
we seem to like things staying the same
there's a certain security income yeah
even the idea of self identity that's
almost like a resistance to change it
allows me to be understood if I if I
give you my totally bio my business card
it will say CEO of marketing company
then you get me you know where I fit I
feel like I'm I fit somewhere and
there's a tribe somewhere but at the
same time The Human Experience yearns
for progress
totally and we're not trying to have
people get rid of their identities right
what we're trying to do is create a
sense of flexibility within that
identity where we don't often see that
human beings we tend to side on the
extreme of the apparent reality that's
what I was mentioning before like I am
here you are there we're speaking to
each other that's apparently happening
but we totally forget the Ultimate
Reality we totally forget that
everything is constantly changing even
this hard table it's changing so fast so
fast that you can't even witness it you
can't even see it unless you profoundly
calm down the mind and start developing
your awareness your Equanimity and you
do this within the framework of the body
because when you understand what's
happening within the body you actually
understand universal law you understand
what's happening you know throughout the
Universe and missing that undercurrent
of change missing that understanding
that your ego is not this permanent
thing
it helps you tremendously so that you're
not as attached as you're moving through
the world because we're constantly
trying to control everything control
ourselves control the people around us
control whatever situation we can get
our hands on and what happens when
you're just trying to constantly control
things misery so much misery so much
struggle so much mental tension and I
think that's why embracing change like
your original question you know what is
our relationship with change it's a
combative one it's a it's a situation
where you know we grow up as children
and we
you know all we're focusing on is
building our identity right when you're
becoming little you're learning the
culture you're sort of taking it all in
and you develop your sense of self but
when you become older you know when
you're grounded and you have a you know
a good sense of identity you also need
to develop an understanding of what's
ultimately happening around here and I
think when you get a real taste of
ultimate truth
it helps you tremendously because I I
think if if I didn't have if I didn't
switch around my relationship with
change
um
like I would have no access to peace
it's interesting because you're you're
totally right when I was younger I grew
up hoovering in for information that
allowed me to survive and I built my
identity around the character that was
required to survive in that context
right not the character that would
make me happiest in my life or most
fulfilled or best in relationships so
what was formed by the age of 18 was
this like insecure shame ridden kid who
would run from relationships because he
thought those were prison
um and that stood in the way of all of
my so many of my goals it certainly
stood in the way of me being really
happy but it also stood in the way of me
finding romantic love right and it was
unpacking that identity and becoming
aware of its existence and then
unpacking it and trying to unlearn it
that allowed me to pursue the things
that now make me fulfilled and happy I'm
still not there yet I haven't really met
anybody that is
um but I find that really interesting
that like we build that identity around
survival and then as an adult at some
point we need to like review it you hit
it on the dot so I think when we it
makes sense evolutionarily like you
Evolution wants you to be able to
survive it does not care about your
happiness it does not care about your
sense of thriving but as you come to
fruition and you come into being and
you're like you're here you have your
sense of identity you realize that
there's so much misery wrapped in the
sense of self a raptor and wrapped in
your attachments and to be able to
really Thrive and to be happy it
requires Letting Go I mean how much
stress have you caused yourself
right there's like we have to ask
ourselves this like of course you know
sometimes people get offended by this
question but you have to realize that
there have definitely been people in
your life who've caused you harm people
who've done terrible things
but it's you and yourself in that mind
of yours right it's it's just you and uh
and we don't quite understand how many
times we replay the pass over and over
and then those same feelings of tension
come up again and again and we have no
way to really process that unless we try
to actively find some sort of tool that
will help us let go and I think it's
really important to just you know you
got to see what you're doing to yourself
how
self-awareness time alone reflecting
have a good teacher you know have
someone who can point things out to you
that you couldn't see before I think
that's ultimately what a lot of
therapists are doing is like have you
asked yourself this have you been honest
about this and similar with meditation
and it's it's you developing a um
you know a sense of inability to observe
instead of just judgment because
constantly when I'm looking out in the
world I'm just evaluating things giving
you this evaluation according to the
memory that I have this record inside of
my mind but instead of constantly just
evaluating things why can I just observe
why does it have to be plus or minus let
me just watch what's happening right now
we're all in Cycles aren't we every most
facets of my life I think pretty much
every facet of my life is in some kind
of cycle now some of those Cycles are
positive so me working out and going to
the gym that seems to be a positive
cycle that I've managed to build some
people might call that a habit and then
I do have other Cycles in my life where
I go that happened I reacted like that
that was not the reaction that would
bring me closer to my goals and
fulfillment
um
I'll try not to do that again and then
the thing happens and that kind of cycle
repeats itself and in so many and I
think about myself I think about my
friends I think about
you know even some of my my close sort
of mentors
um I observe those Cycles in their life
that they're trying to break harder but
they just
they just seem so stubborn right I've
lived through so many of those stubborn
Cycles where for years and years and
years I've known it's a problem I've not
known how to get out of it
what advice would you give me or someone
else in a situation where we we know
we're in a cycle whether it's
relationships or work or how we're
responding to things
and we feel stuck in that cycle
yeah I think that's that's what a lot of
us are going through is that
um
the past is constantly in a loop right a
lot of like we are very largely formed
by those first few years of life you
know a lot of uh psychologists say it
to you about the age of seven I would
say it's more it's like it's um every
time that you react it gets accumulated
so those moments of heartbreak like your
first love your first loss like all of
these things that have
um really formed your sense of self they
are impacting the way that you're
perceiving and the way that you're
reacting to the world and
I think for a lot of us we probably one
of the best tools that we don't access
is just the ability to slow down is just
slowing down literally just pumping the
brakes and what you just talked about
what you just described being able to
spend time observing okay this is what
I'm feeling this is how I want to react
you know I have this because initially
our initial reaction is pretty rough
it's like the most defensive one the
most survival oriented one but it's like
okay that that's actually going to make
a bigger mess of things
what can I do differently like what can
I do to change this play that's
happening around me so that I can put a
different input and hopefully get a
different output and I think when we
slow down we see that and that's one of
the gifts that I personally got from
meditating was I didn't have that
ability ability before like the reaction
was lightning fast you know someone said
something about me I didn't like
immediately like hate like I would be so
upset so like you know wanting to
control their view of me and now it's
like let me slow down let me see how I
would have dealt with this before what's
like the actually the most skillful
thing that I can do in this moment to
like you know to just stay in value with
myself and at the same time just like
maneuver out of this like is this even
worth my time you know you need to know
where that reaction is coming from do
you need to know the root cause no no I
think a lot of people get stuck in like
examining the past and like peeling the
like okay like my mom said this one
thing to me one time and then my dad did
this other thing like it's totally
valuable to understand your past
but healing happens in the present
moment like those feelings like if you
want to deal with your past you need to
be able to create space for the feelings
that are coming up right now because
often those feelings that are coming up
right now are just Echoes of the past
you don't need to know a narrative like
you don't need to give a narrative to
every single feeling you know you
literally just have to be able to hold
space for them and when you do hold
space space for them a lot of the
unbinding happens so that you're not as
knotted up inside oh no
talked about what meditation being
critical for you there to kind of slow
down and have that space to reflect on
how you're responding and and so on
in a in a specific way how does your
meditation look does it is it once a day
for five minutes is it you know you go
off to a retreat yeah so
um you learn vipassana and this is an
Essen tradition same tradition that
you've all know Harare also meditates in
um
we you learn the technique by going away
to one silent 10-day course
um so it's a big commitment it's hard
it's not easy you know the first one
that I did was incredibly difficult like
I just thought about running away for
the first seven days
um
but you learn a technique that you know
the first three days you learn how to
observe your respiration and you're
given this tool called anapana where you
know you're literally observing the
natural breath and then that helps calm
down the mind enough where you can start
feeling a lot more in your body than
what's usual
um you know for some meditators they can
feel like the crispness of the pain that
they're that they might feel from
sitting long hours a day where they can
like feel it to just like this hyper HD
detail and it's not as overwhelming
right because they're there with it
um and or on the other end you know some
meditators will be able to feel this
like
flow of you know rapid energy moving
through the body and it's almost like
like an atomic river that you're sort of
fine-tuning your mind to be able to feel
and you can feel how like yeah this is
my bicep but it's actually it feels like
tens of thousands of like changing
vibrations that are moving incredibly
rapidly and you sit there in silence for
10 days total silence for 10 days you
can talk to the teacher you can ask
questions
um but you're like you're there totally
by yourself
um you're there with a group of people
but you're like in an environment where
it's basically by yourself you're not
allowed to speak to those other people
no no eye contact no speaking you're
like basically living like a monk
and what about on a day-to-day basis
what is your like daily on a day-to-day
basis I meditate two hours a day ten
hours a day that's right every day every
day I've been doing that for I think
about eight years now
um and I meditate one hour in the
morning one hour in the evening or like
you know late afternoon or something
like that what does that look like just
sitting on your own or yeah I mean this
morning I looked like you know came to
New York City just to come hang out with
you woke up this morning
um and just like sat up on the bed and
put my timer for one hour and started
meditating
yeah but we also you know meditate at
home we have our little meditation room
where my wife and I meditate and
um and it's honestly it's amazing it's I
know to a lot of people like two hours a
day wow so much time
but I think about it to myself like how
much time do I waste like I waste tons
of time like I get a lot done but I'm
also constantly wasting time every day
and
what I've understood is that these two
hours a day that I've been meditating
for the past eight years they've been
the biggest investment that I've made in
my life like by far because it's one
thing you know you go away to these
Retreats
um and it's incredibly valuable you know
you can come out totally transformed but
to keep the process going at home it
just adds a deeper element to it that
helps you continue evolving continue
evolving and I think because I've spent
that time my relationship with my wife
has flourished because it was rough like
before we started meditating there was a
six year period where we were together
and before we started meditating and our
relationship was chaos it was it was
like living in a hurricane constantly
fighting fighting each other constantly
blaming each other you know my
relationship with my parents was very
shallow my relationships with my brother
and sister were even more shallow you
know same thing with friends like work
life everything was going terrible but
when I started meditating
everything changed everything opened up
I didn't even know that I would that I
should write you know like all of this
came from
cleaning up my mind and then like my
intuition started waking up and I was
like oh you know try writing you know
you know you know that you don't know
everything
but share share the process
give me instructions then on the
meditation you did this morning
what instructions would you give me to
replicate what you did
I think so this is a thing it's like
this style of meditation
um
you can't pay for it you can't
um like get it off of a YouTube video
like you you have to go to a 10-day
course because it's not I can tell you
the instructions
but do you have enough of the cultivated
qualities to be able to actually deeply
feel the body like that's why it's a
step by step that 10 days is literally
like one giant guided meditation
incredibly simple instructions but
you won't be able to do them unless your
mind is like calm enough unless it's you
know it's like going to the gym it's
like if you were to ask me to go run a
marathon right now like I wouldn't be
able to do it you know I have to train
for it
okay so I'm not going to be able to do
it just based on your instructions I get
that yeah but I'm curious as to
the specific like
yeah these Specific Instructions yeah
yeah yeah so so the two the two Basics
are um you know like what I was
describing to you the first three days
you're observing the breath I mean this
morning and this morning same thing well
this morning
um I was basically observing my body you
know bringing my attention to my body
you know start at the top of the head
and keep feeling my body as I'm moving
down and
you know it sounds really simple but
when you put time into it when you like
keep going to courses the amount that
you feel
um it expands pretty pretty incredibly
yeah do you think the most important
answer is that we're searching for are
within us
totally totally if you spend your whole
life looking outside you could read
every book in the world and still be
absolutely miserable I think it requires
this application of self-awareness to
really unlock your happiness like you
have to develop what you're missing like
develop like compassion is in your mind
but it's undeveloped like self-awareness
it's it's a capacity you have totally
undeveloped like that's that's what was
shocking to me when I went to go
meditate was like my mind could do these
things but my awareness was so Meek when
I first started because it was like a
muscle like when I go to these
meditation courses you know I've gone to
courses that are 20 30 45 days long and
I come out of them and I'm like I just
spent my whole time at the gym like it
was just a mental gym I was like
literally developing my ability to be
aware my ability to be equanimous and my
ability to have love for myself and all
beings
that's my favorite ever
um
quote that I've ever shot on Instagram
is what you've just said which is
there's no self-development without
self-awareness you can read as many
books as you like but if you can't read
yourself you'll never learn a thing oh
this this is why I saw like uh people
listening around like this is why I
became so interested in you was when I
first came around your work and the
algorithm started you know I started
popping it up this was like two two and
a half maybe even three years ago and I
was like I was like dude we're on the
same wave yeah you know we're not doing
the same thing we live in totally
different lives but there's something
there that's like um yeah it's the same
wave
it's a curiosity it's a curiosity that I
see
um in your work in a new and it's funny
because the subject matter
it's not subject matter that is for
everybody and you'll know this from
doing the work you do this there's some
people that when they read terms like
self-love and healing
you know what I mean but it's but it's
funny I just wish those people knew that
all of their goals start with that if
they want to be a billionaire or a
millionaire for whatever reasons they
want I don't want to judge you you want
a Lamborghini if you want to be happy
you want a beautiful relationship it all
starts with these these words that
self-love and healing it's and it's
interesting man like I you know I just
saw the movie air
and it was I loved it you know it was
incredible but what was really telling
to me was that the guy who owned Nike he
was meditating a lot yeah you know and
like it was really helping him it was
helping him stay cool Under Pressure you
know it was helping him like make more
creative decisions like same thing with
um Steve Jobs like he is like he was a
serious man and same thing with um
uh Sam Altman you know created open AI
like he's a serious meditator you know
just met him the other day and like he's
meditating quite seriously but like
these are people who are high performing
people who are make it a point to
cultivate their minds and these are
people that are obsessed with
productivity totally and you know at
that time that's something that has that
blew my mind experiencing it personally
where as I kept going as I kept going to
courses
I realized like I can just I can do more
I can do more with less stress and to me
that's been incredible like At first I
was a writer and then I started opening
up and going into the Venture Capital
world and even later I'm thinking about
opening a business but I wouldn't have
been able to do anything if it wasn't
really for that basic development of
self-awareness and you know Equanimity
and I keep using the word and Equanimity
what I'm talking about is basically your
ability to observe something as it
really is without craving it or without
having any aversion towards it you're
not hating it you're not loving it and
wanting it you're just observing it as
it is
it's a balanced mind
why so this when I start the Diary of
CEO the the base sort of premise of it
was me to share my diary and with
complete honesty so I feel I feel
compelled to do that I've for a long
time viewed meditation as a waste of
time like I think that was my the
thought of sitting there and just
because you know what it appears to be
on the surface is sitting there and just
not thinking about anything yeah but
then as you say all of these incredible
people who are obsessed with
productivity and efficiency and time and
are very very busy tremath as well um
from from the all-in podcast so many
people that I follow and watch and
listen to
they all and so many of the guests that
have come here and are wildly successful
they all talk about the benefits of
meditation right
if there's someone listening to this now
and they go I don't meditate and I in
any way whatever technique you know they
might might use I think I've always
thought it's a waste of time I've tried
it didn't work
what is the pitch you'd make to them
about why they should
persevere and persist
well there's two main things one is you
tried it it didn't work of course of
course it didn't work like you no one
starts out being good at meditation like
what the Mind knows is distraction it's
literally jumping from one thing to
another flying from the past to the
Future from the past the future just
swimming and Imagination so that moment
when you ask your mind to stay in one
place for a few seconds it'll be gone
totally gone so of course you're bad at
it right but that's why you try again
you keep trying you calmly you know
without getting upset with yourself you
put time into it the same way where you
would you know use to build your muscles
or educate yourself on you know if you
want to learn Spanish you're not just
going to know Spanish you need to study
you need to spend you're not going to
know you know zero Spanish when you
begin and you put four five six years of
serious work into it and you get really
good at Spanish it's the same thing with
meditation so one thing is accept that
it's going to be extremely hard in the
beginning and it will humble you because
you're like damn I suck at this good
then you keep going and the second part
of it is
it's an investment you're making a huge
time investment that produces incredible
results inside of you in the way that
you see the world in the way that you
talk to people in the way that you
create whatever it is that you want to
give to the world I think you but you
have to give it time you have to give it
time to really be able to see the
results
maybe at the very Crux of this or
thinking as you're speaking then people
do what they want to do and most of the
things they want they do because they
want to do them are
because they are clear on the reward of
doing it totally think about human
behavior like I went to the toilet I was
clear on the results of going to the
toilet and also not going to the toilet
so I went to the toilet exactly the
results of not going for a wee before
you came here was I would urinate in my
pants so I did yeah I ate breakfast this
morning because I was clear on the
upside of that and also I had the urge
to do it
um when we think about meditation I
think
when I think about the equation of why
people do things the bit that I think a
lot of people aren't clear on is that
first part which is like what is the
upside yeah I can take your word for it
yeah um I can take a lot of very
credible people's word for it but
I think that's the that's the issue it's
the issue it's like you have to
experience it for yourself and I think a
lot of people go into meditation for
like its initial goals you know for
Liberation for you to be free from
suffering which is
the most important goal like that's why
I do it like I don't I don't meditate to
be a better writer right I don't
meditate to like
for anything else other than to take
small steps forward on the path of
Liberation to truly try to Cease the
mechanism in my mind that's causing me
suffering and
the outs are sort of the externality of
that right is that you become incredibly
creative like you don't need to be you
know in film or writing or whatever you
can be in whatever field that it is you
can be an engineer you can be a doctor a
dentist
but you become so much more creative
because your mind isn't as stressed as
it used to be and it's able to make
connections a lot more quickly because
your mind is sharper and understanding
that creativity and understanding how it
impacts your relationships it makes them
so much more deeper than before
I think it gives you an access to new
Beauty in life and
why not you know why not spend that time
on yourself
so you meditate to
avoid suffering
not avoid to be able to understand
reality so well that I don't cause
myself suffering
what are the main causes of suffering as
far as you're concerned it's craving
craving craving yeah totally and it's
not the same as wanting I think that
there is a big issue when um especially
when the Buddhist teaching came over to
the west where it was translated as this
desire is the cause of suffering
and you can look at it that way to some
extent but what seems much more
approachable to me and makes more sense
is craving like craving is not the same
thing as
as wanting something right as having a
goal because there's a difference
between having a goal and having a
craving you can have a goal
and put your mind to it put a lot of
work in but then the moment that you
don't get what you want
and you're like okay it's okay you know
let me go back to the drawing board let
me re-strategize let me figure out how
to do this better than before and you do
all that without crying without being
super upset without punching the wall
you just you keep diligently working and
moving forward
it's possible the other side of that is
craving is doing everything with craving
when your energy is all nutted up when
your mind is super tense because craving
is basically the combination of wanting
and tension like you're really craving
something bad and you're you're sort of
the mind is rippled with stress in the
moment of craving something and in the
moment of like even worse when you don't
get it when you don't get what you were
really striving for so I don't want to
live like with a mind that's craving
like
I'm a householder right I'm not a monk
like I I have I have a wife you know
someday we're gonna have kids like I
have a mother and father that I need to
help take care of like I have to have
goals right when I when I write a new
book or when I start a new venture or do
something like yeah I want to do my best
and but I try to do that as calmly and
as balanced as possible without
stressing myself out that much in the
process I'm not perfect at it but to me
it seems like a much more effective way
to live than just like making myself
stress all the time how do I know if I'm
craving a goal that I have in my life or
if I just you know it's just a goal it's
the moment when you don't get it it's
the moment that you know if you don't
get what you were craving and you're
super stressed out and it just makes you
so upset then you're like crying and you
know you were craving you can even feel
that tension in your mind you're like
you're wanting that ice cream so bad do
you think people that crave achieve more
professionally
you know that's a really good question I
think definitely there have been some
like incredible High achieving people
who are totally driven by craving
dominated but were they happy like were
they okay inside like what you know what
is their karmic situation like I have no
you know like
Genghis Khan like people who conquered
the world like it's totally possible to
conquer the world with no morality but I
wouldn't want to live like that like to
me it's like I'd rather be super
intentional and aware of how I'm moving
about in the world so that I don't cause
my self-harm or other people's harm like
that's my thing now it's like
compassion's really powerful like you
can create businesses in a compassionate
Manner and still be super successful
like you can do the work that you want
to do in a compassionate Manner and be a
high achiever that intentionality around
your goals it's something I've I think
I've struggled with for for the last 10
years is being clear with myself and why
I have certain things as goals yeah you
know because I think in the first
chapter of my life when I was very shame
ridden my goals were
driven by meeting really like to trying
to dissolve the shame that I experienced
as a kid and like
get the things that I thought would make
me love myself yeah I feel like I was
enough
I didn't know that though so I was
pursuing these material things with
these like superficial things thinking
that they were my my ambitions upon
getting there the anti-climax the yeah
the underwear signaled that I was aiming
at the wrong things and there was a big
piece of work actually that's why I
resonate so much about what you write
about in chapter one of your book about
self-love there's a big piece of work
for me to figure out that none of this
stuff was ever going to make me worth
more yeah inside yeah and that the place
for me to to actually build my ambitions
from was that place of feeling
enoughness
um can I ask you something sure I'm
quite curious
um
not like
I've seen your success you know and I
really commend you I think it's it's
quite beautiful and I think you're
inspiring so many people
but knowing your background knowing this
shame know like coming from a place of
not having everything
like now that you do have so much so
much success all the material things you
can just you know buy whatever you want
why do you keep going it's a great
question
so
it's something I've mulled over because
there's still a part of me that wants to
accumulate wealth yeah and I keep asking
myself why yeah you know because I also
I spoke to someone earlier and I said
I'm at a conscious level aware that
there's nothing more that I could buy
that would have an impact on my
happiness in fact yeah it's probably the
opposite to some degree yeah you know if
things were a bit more simple maybe
maybe I'd be more happier
um why do I keep going so I I'm gonna
throw out my hypothesis and please don't
interrogate it because I'd love to chew
it over with you please I'm so curious I
believe that for me to be happy
I believe
chaos is my stability and I think it's
for most people I feel like there's a
certain type of chaos which is my
stability and that my stability is chaos
so what I mean by that is when
everything in my life is achieved and
accomplished and I have nothing else to
strive for you see this a lot in
Olympians or anyone that achieves their
goals they then fall into chaos so we
all need to live in a certain
um
state of
worthwhile meaningful
voluntary
chaos which means like having
uncompleted goals I I sometimes Ponder
whether that's hardwired into The Human
Condition whether the reason why we're
in a skyscraper now in the middle of
Manhattan is because our ancestors had
that hardwired into them they they had
it hardwired that they would build and
progress and move forward I did some
research in preparation for my book and
they asked people in work what's the
most enjoyable day
of your professional career yeah and
everyone points out a day when there was
some sense of progress
I think that's hardwired into us so if I
I almost feel like if I stopped I would
become disorientated
um professionally I'm looking for five
things I'm looking to pursue goals that
are meaningful and worthwhile I'm
looking to have a high degree of
autonomy I'm looking to have a
sufficient sense amount of challenge
again if something's too easy people
lose motivation for some reason if
something's too difficult they become
intimidating lose motivation I'm looking
for a sense of forward motion and lastly
to work with people that I love
um
I think that recipe is the recipe for my
professional happiness so that is what
I'm doing ever bigger goals with people
I love towards worthwhile challenges
that I think are worthwhile
um and I'm trying to remain as conscious
as I can about the
dishonest motivations that sit amongst
that like certain decisions I'll make or
consider I'll buy Rolls-Royce like why
did that come into my mind and where is
that from yeah
um does that answer the question it
absolutely answers it and you know
one
what I'm noticing from that trend of
what you just described is you realize
that these five things that you lined
out and the Chaos versus stability that
all of that to me sounds like this is
essential for your mental health
right that it's almost like it's giving
you reason that's you know to keep
taking steps forward to and to do so in
a way where life doesn't become a mess
so I think that's pretty cool let me
challenge myself yeah yeah this is maybe
the answer I'm scared of giving yeah
um I'm still trying to prove to myself
that I'm enough
um
um I haven't grown out of that I'm just
doing it with different games now I'm
doing it with podcasting I'm doing it in
business still they're just bigger games
they're just different games right
they're like different status games
they're not materialistic status games
because maybe I've evolved out of that
but they are professional status games
that I'm playing yeah
um
what I want to point out to you then and
so if you bring that up
one of the most challenging truths to
accept is that life is inherently
dissatisfactory this is one of the
things that the Buddha pointed out he
pointed out you know there's three major
truths that everything's changing
um that there's suffering which can also
be translated into dissatisfaction
um and there's no self right your ego
not real
um but that second one I think is it's a
difficult one to totally Embrace but
once embraced that you know you can keep
winning winning winning winning winning
winning
but there's still more there's still
like you know there's still something
else to want because we live in this
situation you know the way this universe
works where we can continue ideating
into Infinity we can continue like
developing more knowledge there's more
books to read there's more to understand
so we're functioning almost on an
infinite Spectrum even though we
ourselves are very finite and
I think that creates a situation where
things can be so so dissatisfying
because you never quite get there and
like I've been trying to accept that
understanding into my life and seeing
like you know people ask me like how did
you feel after you became a number one
New York Times bestseller and I'm like
oh well you know it was really nice for
like a few minutes and I was like yeah
that was cool then it was done like it
was like well you know what happens
after that it was like well you just
keep living your life you know and I
could have got wrapped into the sort of
the the deeper existential
dissatisfaction of that of like oh like
you know what happens next
um but it was like okay let me just be
with it as it is
um but
yeah why'd you keep why do you keep
doing what you're doing because you're I
I just realized you've done all of these
amazing things your books just all Smash
Hits you're a venture capitalist now
you're an investor in great companies
You're Building businesses why
I keep going
um like on a mundane level like I only
write books if
um if I actually have something to say
if there's another topic that I want to
cover so I don't do them for like the
big check like you know I do them to to
really be able to be of service and in
terms of building companies like all of
the companies that I
um you know have invested in with wisdom
Ventures they're all companies that are
trying basically trying to prove that
compassion is good business so to me
that feels really critical on a deeper
level right like why I even put myself
out there
I think it's just to have the ability to
give
honestly like just to be able to give I
think um like I don't gain my self-worth
from being a number one New York Times
bestseller from you know like from
selling over a million books or you know
all that stuff it's like that almost
over a million how many yeah
yeah it's wild it's wild but those are
just numbers like I don't I can't
imagine a million like I don't know what
that really is you know I can I can wrap
myself around stories like you know I
just I just talked to someone the other
day I was speaking at an event in San
Francisco
and this woman was telling me like you
know how these three books that I wrote
like they saved her life and I was just
I was like talking to her and I'm like
what like what I'm like are you okay now
like are you like are you good now and
she's like I'm good and I was just like
I couldn't so to me like a story like
that
I can actually feel but when I see the
numbers like you know I can't even
pretend to imagine what a million is but
I I keep going because um
you know
I I want to be able to take care of my
parents and I want to be able to to give
to good things
um and to me that feels right for right
now like I'll see what that looks like
five to ten years down the line quick
one I'm so delighted that we're now
sponsoring this podcast I've worn a week
for a very very long time and there are
so many reasons why I became a member
but also now a partner and an investor
in the company but also me and my team
are absolutely obsessed with data driven
testing compounding growth marginal
gains all the things you've heard me
talk about on this podcast and that very
much aligns with the values of whoop
whoop provides a level of detail that
I've never seen with any other device of
this type before constantly monitoring
constantly learning and constantly
optimizing my routine for providing me
with this feedback we can drive
significant positive behavioral change
and I think that's the real thesis of
the business so if you're like me and
you are a little bit obsessed or focused
on becoming the best version of yourself
from a health perspective you've got to
check out woob and the team that we've
kindly given us the opportunity to have
one month's free membership for anyone
listening to this podcast just go to
join.woop.com CEO to get your whoop four
point 0.0 device and claim your free
month and let me know how you get on
right now I'm incredibly busy I'm
running my fund where we're investing in
slightly later stage companies I've got
my Venture business where we invest in
early stage companies got a third web
out in San Francisco in New York City
where we've got a big team of about 40
people and the company's growing very
quickly flight story here in the UK I've
got the podcast and I am days away from
going up north to film Dragon stem for
two months and if there's ever a point
in my life where I want to stay focused
on my health but it's challenging to do
so it is right now and for me that is
exactly where huel comes in allowing me
to stay healthy and have a nutritionally
complete diet even when my professional
life descends into chaos and it's in
these moments where heels rtds become my
right hand man and save my life because
when my world descends into professional
chaos and I get very very busy the first
thing that tends to give way is my
nutritional choices so having heal in my
life has been a lifesaver for the last
four or so years and if you haven't
tried heal yet which is I I'd be shocked
you must be living under a rock if you
haven't yet give it a shot coming into
summer things getting busy Health
matters always RTD is there to hold your
hand what do you think makes a good
partner broadly I sat here with Simon
cynic and I threw out
the idea that
um because I think when I was younger
and maybe a bit more immature I had this
kind of like superficial list yeah
brunette this this size whatever and as
I matured a little bit I tried to
consolidate that list into like the
non-negotiables I I landed on
intellectually stimulating which I think
is kind of what you've described there
where you don't have that kind of
intellectual conversation totally and
build and grow intellectually together
this one's a bit of an interesting one
they make me better at my what I do my
mission now they support that in
whatever and I have to say that's
something that you have to be willing to
reciprocate and then the third one is
sexual attraction yeah yeah I didn't say
physical attraction I was very specific
about having to have sexual attraction
Simon sinek added one he said it's three
plus one he said the the one you need on
top of that is timing
and concluded it was three plus one
anything else you would add to that in
terms of I would actually simplify it I
think um it comes down to
the intuitive click I think that there
are some people
um like when my wife and I when we
physically came across each other you
know she was
um 18 I was 19. she was a freshman I was
a sophomore like literally from the
moment that we met we both
um come from very different backgrounds
like I grew up in the city she grew up
in The Burbs our idea right like our
like list of like what we wanted in a
partner was not each other we were like
but there was just like this
incredible pull to just like discover
like who is this person you know and
like we spent like two two and a half
months being friends and then the moment
that I saw that other guys were trying
to pair up with her and be her be their
boy be you know get together with her I
was like oh no I was like that and that
and then I realized my deeper feelings
and I was like no no I was like I I
actually have feelings for you I want to
be with you and um do you come out to
friend zone yeah yeah yeah basically
came out of the friend's house
oh man but I think it's it's the
intuitive click plus the willingness to
grow I think that's what really can make
a relationship healthy and productive
because like we're we're all in
different starting points but if you
have the willingness to grow like I'm
here like I want to learn for myself I
want to learn from you like how can I
how can we both do this better I think
that you can make real magic from that
when you encountered challenges in your
relationship what was the root cause of
that or what was missing
um I mean between the two of us if you
were to add up how much emotional
maturity there was it would be zero like
during that time like zero
self-awareness zero emotional maturity
like if one of us got upset about
whatever you know whatever it could be
it would immediately be finger pointing
like this is your fault you know like
and this is why you need to change in a
few change then I'll be happy but when
we started meditating we started
realizing it was like oh wait this isn't
about you at all this is between me and
myself and I'm actually just taking
these dense emotions and allowing
narratives to be built around them that
somehow just take the blame away from me
and so that I take no accountability and
it was rough man like when we were when
we first got together like the
connection was there but there was no
there was no willingness to grow there
was no emotional maturity to really hold
it so we were like constantly fighting
we'd break up get back together break up
get back together and it was we were
always it always felt like we were at
square one like we were never really
like flowering and blossoming together
and when we started meditating we
started noticing like
our fights got a little calmer right the
screams got a little lower and we
started and the the switch was very slow
where when the fight would happen it
wasn't like you did this you did that it
became
how do you feel like what's happening
like why you know what are you seeing
and then I explain what I'm seeing and
it's like we're trying to understand
each other's perspectives as opposed as
opposed to making each other say sorry
and like winning the argument you know
it went from
fighting as a thing for victory to like
fighting as a moment that we can develop
understanding like what's happening with
you let me tell you what's happening
with me
you and her against the problem yeah
yeah
versus you versus huh totally
totally
that's really rare that's so rare yeah
no and we're yeah and same thing like
we're not perfect you know we still
argue have conflict
um but it's way less dramatic than it
used to be
the first chapter in your book is about
self-love your new book your newest book
lighter is about self-love the subtitle
here is let go of the past connect with
the president expand the future
self-love what does that actually mean
that that just means loving myself right
no there's a lot more to that come on
Stephen
yeah no I think um when I started asking
myself the same question that the whole
internet was asking itself back in uh
2015 2016 when self-love just burst onto
the scene like I don't know if you
remember that time but on Instagram like
everybody was trying to explore like
what does self-love really mean and I
asked myself the same question back then
and to me the way I learned to Define it
was that it's doing what you need to do
to heal and Free Yourself
um and I think of it as an energy like
it's the energy that you use to evolve
and I wanted to sort of put that
definition out there because I'm like
that's how I'm enacting self-love in my
life and it's very different from what I
was learning from you know the
materialistic sort of consumer side of
self-love which is just like buy
yourself whatever you want take a bubble
bath like all these external things that
I I personally think don't they don't
you know definitely treat yourself well
but like that's not going to add up to
that much like the problem is like you
know in your own mind in your own heart
a lot of that's still distraction isn't
it it's totally distraction it's just
you're just sugar coating the situation
but you're not really going to the depth
going to the root problem so I think
self-love is um you know using that
energy to healing for yourself to really
go deep within yourself and basically
discover like you know you go you walk
through your own inner Forest like
there's so much like when you turn that
lens Inward and you start examining like
what have I gone through like what have
I overcome like where do I struggle
where are my blocks and you learn to
learn you know you you learn from that
and you accept it simultaneously
it's it's beautiful the way you know the
evolution can really flourish from there
you describe it as going through that
Forest yeah
for a lot of people it's not quite a
forest it's like
a big Dark Canyon that there might be
lions and tigers inside yeah
so who wants to go into the canyon you
know I've got I think so much about
certain people in my life where
they
are seeing their behavior doesn't
correlate or isn't aligned with who they
want to be and how they want to behave
yeah but the thought of going into the
canyon or the forest or however you want
to describe it is also scary it's also
really scary absolutely but
you're not going to have Victory without
challenge like these two things go hand
in hand like you're not just going to be
given peace like no one's going to be
like oh you're free now you know like
you have to put in the work and
sometimes the work is like pretty scary
you know to really go in there to like
sit there with yourself while all this
anxiety or like you know panic attack
energy or like whatever it is you know
like this like this deep stuff starts
coming up and you're with yourself and
you're calm and you're patient and
you're loving yourself through it
like I think there's there's there's
really no other way especially if you're
trying to like
you know just build a new structure in
your mind and come out with you know
peace at the center of it
what's your view broadly on the the
current state of um talks about your
wife a second ago about cut the current
state of like relationships and dating
and what do people getting wrong I think
a lot about this because again
um
I'm at that age now I'm 30 years old I'm
lucky enough to be in a relationship but
I I see a lot of people that are
struggling because I almost feel like
there's a generation trapped between the
technological Revolution where there's
this one generation that are kind of
accustomed to social media and dating
yeah dating apps and then there's this
other generation that kind of got
trapped and they're now in their like
early 30s right and um they don't quite
resonate with the
the culture of dating apps or social
media
but when you look at the data that more
than 50 of meeting are now more than 50
of people are now meeting online so
they're struggling yeah what's your
overview what's your sort of opinion on
dating and where we are in culture I
think there's two main problems
Perfection and craving
um
oftentimes we
want the person that we're going to be
with to be
so incredible there's never a problem
with them
always good times you know they know how
to support us perfectly when there's a
moment of struggle and it's just not
going to be like that you know to be
able to develop a good rhythm with each
other means that your flaws are going to
come up that you know you're going to be
such clear mirrors for each other that
you're going to see parts of yourself
that you have to face and do something
about so being able to throw out this
idea of perfection especially when like
you know date one day two day three and
then the first disagreement happens it's
like blunt you cut it you know the
second part of it is craving where I've
seen you know with a number of friends
and just kind of like what's happening
out there is like you'll have a
relationship for an X number of months
but then there's the craving it's like
oh there might be something better out
there for me you know but like it's
always going to be like that so how many
Fantastic relationships have been ruined
by this idea that oh there might be
something else out there that's better
for me and then you just throw away a
fantastic thing a good question to ask
you yeah I've Got a Friend
um who has been single for a while and
she's been on hundreds and hundreds of
dates yeah hundreds and hundreds of
dates and she asked me for advice the
other day and I didn't actually know
what to say to her because she's going
on the dates
um
I would assume that in hundreds and
hundreds I literally mean three to four
a week I would assume that I've met
someone yeah yeah and
you know I wasn't necessarily sure what
to say to her I almost look at think
about it like a marketing funnel where I
think there's different in marketing you
have at the top of the funnel you have
awareness and then as the funnel gets
thinner so you might meet awareness
might be just like Impressions on social
media you might get a million
impressions a million guys or women that
you see it interact with come across
then we have the con maybe in the
marketing context then we have the date
then the date might convert into a
relationship and the relationship might
convert into a marriage yeah a top of
the funnel seems to be going great yeah
but there's lots of like you know
Impressions yeah awareness but then that
second stage in the funnel which is
converting that date into something that
is a relationship seems to be
I don't know seems to be a problem there
what would you say to someone like that
that's interesting you don't know her
again no no you have all the context
information about what she's on the
surface but if she gets hundreds of
dates hundreds she
imagine she's beautiful like she's
beautiful yeah and I think that there
needs to be two things like there needs
to be self-analysis on her part like
what is going on right because I'm sure
out of those hundreds like there's
probably a few people who are like ready
to you know build something they must
build something together just if you're
playing the game of numbers you know
like there's definitely someone who's
like oh let you know let's let's go on a
second date a third day let's go on a
trip let's you know build something
together
um so I think there has to be a
self-analysis where like is there a part
of her that's afraid to actually like
bring in that next level of
vulnerability where we can like
you know develop something beautiful
together
um the other aspect of it I would say
like
the dating that's fine but
make sure that you are not stuck in a
loop like that you're answering
questions the same way that you're
asking the same questions over and over
that you're not sort of like stuck in
this system that your mind has created
about what dating is like break that
habit like create something new it's a
make it into a different play between
you and the other person how
um I think yeah if you're always meeting
at a bar don't meet at a bar like ghost
go out meet in the park meet in the you
know go for if you're live in New York
City Walk 50 blocks together just like
just do different things that you can do
together
um because if you get stuck in that same
mode of doing it the way that you're
familiar with then you're going to be
saying the same things over and over and
your mind's going to want like similar
things so you won't be open to like
fully Embrace fully embracing a person
as they really are and then and the
added third thing is just throw away
Perfection like you got you gotta like
you're looking for something and like
you might be missing what's the
Fantastic thing that's right in front of
you an idea of being stuck in a loop is
so interesting to me because you can be
stuck in a self-sabotaging loop and not
even know it totally man I so I learned
this between me and my dad so like my
dad
he is like just
hard hard working individual like that's
how he shows your love for you he's
gonna break his back so that he can
support you
um by giving you the monetary things
that can help you
um so my dad has been busting his butt
just working working but I realize that
like I love this man like I don't know
what it is like me and him have a deep
connection
but our relationship was so stale and it
was the same it was like the same light
topics that we would talk about
and I specifically remember this was
like in that first year when I started
my my personal growth Journey
I was like my relationship with my dad
it sucks but like how what can I do to
make it better I and and you know the
first instinct is like you need to
change and it was like no no I was like
I need to change like I need to switch
the game up because we have this play
going on between the two of us but I
keep doing and saying the same thing so
let me switch it up and I remember one
day he comes home from work you know
super tired and I was like you know what
like so [__] it let me just give him
this huge hug
and I remember I remember hugging him
because we weren't that affectionate
like that you know I remember hugging
him
and being like I love you man and like
dude let me tell you that totally
changed our relationship and it was
you know I don't want to give myself too
much credit but
there were a lot of things happening
inside him but he's changed a lot since
that like he used to be hard like a rock
and now he's so open with what he feels
and he wasn't open with his feelings at
all before and that might have been
because we were very very young and now
that you know we're adults and we can
like properly hold space with each other
but I remember like that moment being
like a clear like I changed the play you
know and I was just like hug them
and was just like I love you and
now you know we text each other all the
time and it's deeper and we're solving
problems together like we solve family
problems together where
um like that it wasn't quite like that
before and like he cries you know I'll
hold space for him and it's it's a real
real relationship and before it was just
totally surface level
had you not done a lot of work would you
have been in a situation where you could
have given him that hug and said those
words
I think what I think with courage yeah
and I think just with slowing down and
being able to observe because like at
that time I hadn't done a lot of work
this was like two three months after I
almost died and I I just you know was
examining
like spending time with my emotions and
examining like you know what am I doing
like with with my wife like what's you
know what's going on like why does my
relationship with my little sister suck
like you know what what more can I do
and um and then when I came to my dad I
was like yo like
you know her relationship is stale and I
need to I need to I want him to know how
much I love him because this man works
so hard like he should do you know he
gave me life and I'm so grateful
what why didn't you say that sooner
I think because my mind was like my
attention was totally consumed on
running away from myself and that's what
made me Hyper self-centered at that time
like I was only worried about what I
craved only worried about what I wanted
to watch on TV what I wanted to eat you
know what party I wanted to go to next
and like I couldn't I like I didn't have
the mental space to actually like think
about other people well
hmm
it's a lot of distraction it sounds like
totally totally a miserable period
I can I can I can relate in a tremendous
tremendous way
this conversation has really made me um
realize how much I need to create spaces
for myself I think that's one of the big
big takeaways just
I'm definitely addicted to distraction I
think most of us are especially in the
modern world where technology has been
designed to
um
to take advantage of our brains yeah in
a way that will you know I was chatting
some of my friends this week and we had
our stag do so my six best friends came
together and halfway through the Stag do
I looked around and saw that we were a
lot of us were on our phone so I said
let's compare screen time yeah and we
all whipped out our phones and my one
friend who I won't name you know who you
are
um had 14 hours a day screen time he was
the the record holder no 14 hours a day
and there was this really interesting
moment where we we never we don't see
each other much because we all live in
different parts of the world yeah
and we all just started roasting him
because he was on his phone the entire
time we'd gone jet skiing we'd gone
there so did it and it wasn't just him
it was most of us but the thought that
you could be with your best friends and
on planet Earth and still be spending 10
hours a day on your mobile phone there's
something and I remember we went to a
restaurant I looked over at the table
behind us and one guy was watching the
basketball we're in a restaurant yeah
it's 9pm at night one guy's watching the
basketball on his phone there's a date
across from us both of the people on the
date were on their phones [__] you know
there must be a cost to this like
cultural addiction to distraction but do
you see the Paradox in that right where
like I'm not trying to shame your friend
or anything like so much love to him I'm
sure he's a homie
um but if you spend that much time on
your phone
a tool that's supposed to make you
connected you're actually incredibly
disconnected like totally because you
spend that much time looking here and
the whole world like the whole your life
is happening around you but you're not
plugged into it you know so there's
there's no presence there that's hard
these apps were sold to us on the basis
of connection and that's that's the
crazy thing we thought we'd become more
connected we just became a lot more
distracted and disconnected yeah and the
loneliness stats are horrifying the
suicide rates how teenagers feel about
themselves these days and what's coming
out about the impact of social media on
like young minds it's pretty dangerous
and I mean I've seen it like it's it's
quite rough like I see it in myself and
I've seen in young people around me too
but um like the the internet that we
have now like it has to be reformed with
compassionate design you know we have to
think about the way that we build our
products with the user's well-being in
mind and I mean that's why that's why we
decided to build wisdom Ventures like
myself
and five other friends from Silicon
Valley who all um you know worked in
different areas of the tech world we
came together and we basically wanted to
create a venture capital firm that
focuses on funding pre-seed and seed
companies you know so brand new startups
but that are intentionally building
their products in a compassionate manner
like when they're when whatever it is
that they're trying to do you know
whether it's in the well-being space or
not they build in a way where they think
about the user and they think about the
mental well-being of the user like it
are they going to be hurt using this
program like are they going to be hurt
using this platform and let's make it in
a way where it provides the service that
they want but
you know keeps them sane and balanced as
much as possible
in a society based on speed and
productivity moving slowly is a radical
Act
I loved that quote chapter eight of your
book you in the chapter about challenges
during healing
in a society based on speed and
productivity moving slowly is a radical
Act
yeah I think um it's something that is
so challenging because the demands are
intense and they're just they just keep
raising you know everyone is trying to
reach these incredible levels of
productivity and you know our capitalism
is just geared that way where it's just
it's pushing for growth growth growth
growth and not internal growth like
material growth
um
so to be able to look at your life and
say you know what I just can't answer
any more emails right now I don't feel
good like I need to go for a long walk I
need to sit down and meditate like I
need to take some time for myself it's
absolutely a radical act and it's
necessary because if you're trying to
live a life of thriving like a good life
then you need to be able to live that
life at your own pace if I'm trying to
match your pace then it's not going to
work for me you and I are very different
people we can both be productive in
different ways but we have to do it in a
way that honors our internal system and
we're just not going to be the same
what's the most important thing that we
haven't talked about
in your view
I think
how healing changes the world
because I think people like oh man I
read a review of lighter and it's funny
because the the feedback that I got from
the book from the audience was so like
they you know they love the last two
chapters and I remember writing that
book and I was like okay the purpose of
this book is for me to put everything
together
that I believe is important for personal
transformation so I cover the whole
thing you know self-love letting go
um the challenges that you face
emotional maturity
um how that change ripples outward but
when I started going outward you know
that's the whole purpose of my pen name
my pen name is Young Pueblo like my real
name is Diego Perez but I I wanted to
write
within a particular frame and young
Pueblo means young people like Pueblo is
just a you know a Spanish word and it
has different definitions all over Latin
America but from where I come from it
refers to the masses of impoverished
people
when I started meditating I realized I'm
incredibly immature
but the world is immature too because
I've always loved studying history and
I've seen how
the basic things that we were taught as
children right to clean up after
yourself
to share with each other to tell the
truth to not hit each other to generally
be kind with one another
these things
are done on an individual basis by some
people
but if you scale it up to the human
Collective we don't know how to do these
things at all right we're terrible at
sharing with each other we're constantly
hitting each other through all these
wars that we're fighting we're not kind
to one another we're lying to each other
like systemically as one Humanity we
have not mastered the fundamentals that
we were taught as children and
uh that's really you know I wanted to
basically put that frame because I
really believe that Society emerges from
the individual and from our
relationships right our society is a
reflection of these relationships so I
thought you know let me spend a lot of
time talking and writing about personal
development because hopefully if people
do develop self-love like real self-love
then they're going to be much less
interested in harming each other
Diego Perez young Pueblo
you have 30 seconds
30 seconds left to live
you're
laid there on your
final bed
your work is done
you have a conclusive message to send
out to the world
everybody is on the end of the phone
all eight billion of us
what'd you say
if I could speak
I'd probably have everybody meditate
with me I'd make I'd have them
be aware of their breath
and then die peacefully I was the one
you first asked I was like I'd say
nothing I'd just be meditating
but if there are people waiting for
something then then we have to meditate
together
is there anything else you wanted to
talk about
you know we've kind of known each other
from afarer yeah a long time is there
anything else you're curious about or
before we close out this conversation
um
I I you know I want to get into the sort
of the technical aspects of like
how you manage your time you know
because I I've been noticing one thing
where now that I'm doing multiple things
at once
when I go into a new project
I never specify how many hours I'm going
to work on it what I do specify is what
I can do for you like what I can bring
to the table and what I'm going to be
able to deliver on which is very
different from saying I can give you 20
hours of my time yeah right because that
doesn't mean anything like you know
sometimes when you when you create a
project
you you know you put things together and
they happen like quick you know and a
bunch of the rest of the time you you
are not using that time that well and um
I found that to be really useful to just
say this is what I can do for you but
not how long I'm going to work and also
never be in a situation where someone's
my boss like it's always equal
Partnerships
I think that makes a ton of sense yeah
is that what you do too
um
so
I these days I
I guess I do both so if I'm going into a
new partnership or an investment I want
to be very clear because I know
expectations are the root cause of all
unhappiness in business and in any form
of relationship I want to be super clear
on the expectations so
um a what I'll deliver but also
um clear deliverables in terms of like
time like when yeah and I know that my
time is literally the most scarce asset
that I have like right now before you
arrived I'm being hounded by several
members of my team for urgent things
they're telling me that if I don't
deliver X ones out of my book today then
we'll have to move the publication day
beyond August at the same time I said
something I was like all of these things
in my head
um and then I have to say the most
important thing is just this idea of who
not how I think a lot of people
especially entrepreneurs get caught up
in
trying to figure out how to do stuff but
the big unlock for me after meeting
certain entrepreneurs and spending time
with Richard Branson and great people is
those people default to who as in who
can do this versus trying to figure it
out or do it myself and I'm very lucky
now to have great teams of people where
it's meant that I can spend the time I
do have on the small thing that I'm good
at and that only I can do and that's
like really my strategy to life it's
like there's a there's a small thing
that only I can do that I'm specifically
good at let's try and spend all 16
waking hours doing that thing if I can
um
yeah but it's a mess and that is the
most important thing I could probably
say it is a total mess I hear about all
these successful people or business
people and there's like oh 30 minute
routine and I have this time blocking
technique and blah blah blah I can't
yeah I I can't yeah I mean my life is a
mess
um it's a balanced chaotic mess where
each element of my life kind of
shrinks and expands in priority and
attention
as I go through different seasons right
now I'm in a season of work because I'm
filming a TV show and then I'm doing
this this is my week off and I'm back to
filming the TV show so where's my
partner and all of that after the TV
show is done I'll be back with my
partner and we'll go on holiday so
that'll expand so I'm okay with it being
a mess yeah I think I've um
one of the one of the things I'm most
grateful for is they never believed in
what you said which is perfection yeah I
never believed it I saw all of my idols
and I the way that they're portrayed in
interviews and stuff is like these
superheroes or whatever I'm a total mess
in so many facets of my life and I
always believe that that was both okay
and enough for me to achieve what I
wanted to do that's really helped me
Perfection creates that sense of
inadequacy doesn't it it totally does
that's beautiful to hear because I've
been learning that like I can do it my
way yeah like the same thing that you
were just saying you know I can do it my
way I don't have to be like the people
around me I can learn from them you know
have Role Models but I don't need to be
exactly like my role models I can just
you know just figure out how to you know
achieve well in the way that works best
for me and um I think coming to peace
with the fact that you know
there are just some things that I'm good
at and other things that I'm not and
like when you're when there are some
things that you're not good at like I
don't need to get an MBA I need to hire
out an MBA you know like I don't know
like I'm good at marketing I'm good at
vision and I'm good at writing and I can
meditate that's all I can do and that is
a more than enough yeah and especially
if you're good if you're good at those
and you just focus on those things
you're going to be in that you know
Irreplaceable category of people that
can do that yeah and the world needs
that some of my best teammates are like
fundamentally including myself some of
the best people that work in some of my
companies are fundamentally
bad at critical things they're not good
managers they're unorganized they're Ms
but they are the most incredible
creatives so instead of trying to fight
their their what might be seen as their
deficiency
we've come to learn over time and with
experience to nurture their their
Brilliance yeah and that that gets the
best out of them same with Richard
Branson he can't look at presentations
can't do English can't do math he said
um at a high level but he's built one of
the most incredible companies in the
world we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest asks a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're going to leave it for and
the question left for you
is
what is
your rich life
hmm
my rich life would be
being able to meditate as much as I want
just to you know do more of these
consecutive long courses and still be
able to amply support my parents like
take super fantastic care of my wife and
you know my children's or if my you know
siblings or my wife's siblings or
parents need support that I'm just like
I can just give without any sort of
worry and being able to you know sit is
what you know we call it being able to
meditate and still be able to give
without worry I think that's like that's
the place where I'm trying to get to is
um
I've had a lot of success but I've also
I also know that I'm still in a building
stage like I'm still growing
yeah
that's very beautiful all your work is
very beautiful it's um the way I would
describe it is it feels incredibly
refreshing to hear someone that has such
a what I feel like is such a pure
perspective about the path to
um becoming our aligned happiest self
like meeting you makes me feel refreshed
it's almost like I've you've cleaned out
a bunch of stuff in my head that needed
to be cleaned out for me to get closer
to
the happiest life that I could live
that's the like the way that I would
viscerally describe it and that's
exactly what your book is I mean that's
what it's called lighter after meeting
you and after having this conversation I
feel inherently lighter
this is what the book does to people it
makes them feel like what a perfect
title what a perfect title because
that's exactly how I feel right now it's
a pleasure to me it's a pleasure to talk
to you thank you for doing such
necessary work and I I'm so excited to
follow your journey through
entrepreneurship but also through
Publications like this one over the next
many many decades thank you so much my
friend it makes me feel so happy that
this moment finally came together and
that you know just watching you from
afar like I've been appreciating you
all along the way and
I've been you know supported by the
wisdom that you've been putting out
there but to also see you
act and create in the world to literally
you know create things that people can
benefit from that's beautiful and I'm
happy to see people doing both like you
can grow as an individual and
you know be effective and supportive in
this world and give people things they
need
yeah so thank you
quick one as you guys know we're lucky
enough to have blue jeans by Verizon as
a sponsor of this podcast and for anyone
that doesn't know blue jeans is an
online video conferencing tool that
allows you to have slick fast high
quality online meetings without all the
glitches you might normally find with
online meeting tools and they have a new
feature called Blue Jeans basic blue
jeans basic is essentially a free
version of their top quality video
conferencing tool that means you get an
immersive video experience that is super
high quality super easy and super
basically zero fast apart from all the
incredible features like zero time
limits on meeting calls it also comes
with High Fidelity audio and video
including Dolby voice which is
incredibly useful they also have
Enterprise grade security so you can
collaborate with confidence it's so
smooth that it's quite literally
changing the game for myself and my team
without compromising on quality to find
out more all you have to do is search
bluejeans.com and let me know how you
get on
[Music]
oh
foreign